Tagged Point Cloud (TPC) Format Specification 0.1
=================================================

Purpose
-------

Tagged Point Cloud (TPC) is a JSON file format for storing a
collection of points in R^n (a "cloud") and additional data related to
the points in the form of *attributes* and *tags*.

An attribute is pair consisting of a string, the *attribute name*, and
a JSON object associated to each point in the cloud (collectively
these are the *attribute values*).  The attribute names used in a
given file are stored in a header.  The attribute values are stored
with the coordinates of the points in the cloud.

A tag is a pair consisting of a string, the *tag name*, and a subset
of the cloud, the *tag set*.  These are stored by associating to each
point in the cloud a list of tag names for which that point belongs to
the tag set.

File extension
--------------

The suggested extension for TPC files is `.tpc`.

Specification
-------------

A TPC file contains a JSON object with the following attributes:

* Required attributes:
  * `format` : The string `"TPC 0.1"`
  * `dimension` : A positive integer.
  * `attributes` : An array of strings (possibly empty).  The strings
  are the attribute names.  The order in which the attribute names
  appear in this array specifies the order in which the associated
  attribute values appear in the elements of the `points` array.
  * `points` : An array of objects.  Each object represents a
    *point*, and has the following attributes
      * `v` : _Required attribute_.  The vector representing the
        coordinates of the point; an array of floats of length `dimension`.
      * `a` : _Required attribute_.  The list of attribute values for
        this point in order corresponding to the array `attributes`;
        an array of length `len(attributes)`.
      * `t` : _Required attribute_.  The list of tags associated with
        this point, that is, the tag names for which this point
        belongs to the tag set.
      * No other attributes are permitted.

* Optional attributes with fixed meaning:
   * `timestamp` : The UTC date and time of creation of the file, in the
      ISO 8601-compliant format generated by Javascript's
      Date.toJSON() method.  (Example `"2015-10-26T07:46:36.611Z"`)
   * `description` : A string describing the contents of the file

* Forbidden attributes:
  * `$schema` : Reserved for future use.
    
* Permitted attributes:
  * Arbitrary additional attributes are permitted, except for those
    listed under "Forbidden attributes".

Example
-------
    {
        "attributes": [
            "sum",
            "min"
        ],
        "description": "An example TPC file",
        "dimension": 2,
        "format": "TPC 0.1",
        "optional": {
            "what": "Additional attributes",
            "why": "Are permitted"
        },
        "points": [
            {"v": [1.0,1.0],
            "a": [2.0,1.0],
            "t": ["positive"] },
            {"v": [1.0,2.0],
            "a": [3.0,1.0],
            "t": ["positive", "distinct"] },
            {"v": [-2.0,1.0],
            "a": [-1.0,-2.0],
            "t": ["distinct"] },
            {"v": [-3.0,-3.0],
            "a": [-6.0,-3.0],
            "t": [] }
        ],
        "timestamp": "2015-10-26T07:46:36.611Z"
    }
